Opportunities for physical and social connections are created by the Nexus. The building is on the song line between Haymarket and Broadway. As such, the building is not only a part of the Faculty of Science, it is also a key threshold building for the University and the wider central business district. The Nexus visually links back to Broadway via Jones Street and intersects between Wattle Street and Jones Street. Connections occur back to the existing science building at level seven, as well as underground to the Learning Commons at level one, via a proposed general teaching vein between the Automated Library Retrieval System and the multi-purpose sports hall. Furthermore, the built environment facilitates interaction between students and staff, and inspires multi disciplinary collaboration. Active social engagement strategies for the local community and professional industries allow for a permeable and vibrant campus community.

Collaborative

The learning landscape emphasises the student experience, and integrates the design, space planning and technology with new learning and teaching pedagogies as they emerge and develop. This includes an additional lecture theatre proposed at the lower levels of the Nexus building. In conjunction with the HASSELL design team responsible for the Automated Library Retrieval System, the opportunity exists to provide innovative
general teaching space at low level. In addition, this underground level connects back to the Learning Commons.

Sustainable

The north facing facade is the public side of the building. It faces onto Thomas Street. Due to the direct sunlight issue, this facade is more solid with fenestration as required by the programme within. The facade is on a marginal incline which serves two purposes. Firstly the inward slope allows for the maximum amount of light into the lower level teaching facility. Secondly, the incline means that each floor acts as a sun shade to the level below. A latticework of plate steel shrouds the north facade and is dual purpose. The lattice work in the first instance acts as a sunshade. Its deep projection ensures minimum ingress of direct sunlight. Secondly the lattice work acts as a housing for the photovoltaic panels that run across the facade and up and over the roof of the building. Since the building is viewed on the oblique from Harris Street, a tall slash through the height of the entry clearly defines the entry point.
 
Human
 
Critical to the success of the public domain and landscape language is the building setting and its connectivity to the broader campus and community environs. To this effect, the proposed design maintains simplicity of idea and clarity of intent:
_Is respectful of Alumni Green.
_Provides space and architectural scale.
_Establishes key circulation and pedestrian movement.
_Includes artful innovation and interest.
_Works within the landscape framework of ‘green and forest’.
 
Key desire lines between, from, to and through buildings intersect Alumni Green as both functional pathways and key opportunities for art expression, illumination and transparent subterranean folly. and Thomas Street and framing the western edge of the.
 
Innovative
 
Nexus will generate a world class research facility that:
_Translates scientific knowledge into accessible, evidence-based input for policy makers.
_Attracts and retains outstanding researchers and administrative leaders.
_Enables researchers to collaborate informally and formally with each other, and with external researchers.
_Provides high-quality education for undergraduate and postgraduate students and encourages them to consider a career in research.
_Accommodates a range of wet, and dry research activities that allow for the flexible formation of integrated research groups.
_Makes a positive contribution to the University of Technology, Sydney and wider community.
 
Client-focused
 
The Nexus Laboratory will achieve the University’s strategic vision, “to be one of the world’s leading Universities of Technology”. The state-of-the-art facility will promote connections between new technologies and educational pedagogies that support the university’s aspirations to attract and retain world class researchers. Nexus will enhance and support the expansion of the Faculty of Science, further connecting the science precinct with the community, and provoke an environment that will attract and retain internationally leading scientists, academics and researchers.
 
Project Contacts
 
_Martin Lee, Project Director, Perth
_Daniel Griffin, Project Team Leader, Sydney 
 
